[MUSIC]
This lecture will continue talking
about UART, talk about more of the bits
that are transmitted in addition to
the data bits and the start bit.
So Parity Bit.
This is an optional bit that
you can transmit with the data.
So transmission is assumed
to be error prone.
This is very common,
long distance communication.
You can have lots of
electromagnetic radiation.
Some kind of noise, right?
So this maybe synchronization accuracy,
or inaccuracy, something like that.
There are lots of reasons why
there can be noise on a line.
So there can be times
where you expect a zero.
Zero is being transmitted, but
the receiver receives a one instead, or
vice versa.
You transmit a one but
the receiver receives a zero,
because of various types of noise.
So to adjust for that,
to take care of that,
at least to detect that,
we have parity bits.
So parity bit is optional.
One parity bit can be
sent with each packet,
each, say group of eight data bits.
The parity bit is used to check for error.
So, the parity of a sequence of bits.
So let's say we're sending eight bits,
eight data bits.
The parity is the count, you either
have even parity or odd parity, and
it's related to the number of
ones that are transmitted.
So, if you're transmitting eight bits and
an odd number of those bits are ones,
then you say you have odd parody.
And if an even number of those bits
is a one, then you have even parity.
So parity's always gonna be even or odd.
Let's say even is zero and odd's a one.
So parities of any sequence
of bits is always even or
odd depending on how many
bits you're transmitting.
So what we do is, if we use a parity bit,
we send the data bits, and then we
also send one more bit which is the parity
bit, which is either zero or one.
A zero if the parity of the other
bits is even, a one if it's odd.
And then what can happen is on the
receiving end, it can check the parity.
So it can count the number of ones that it
received, and checks if it's even or odd,
and then it compares
that to the parity bit.
If the parity bit set is even,
it's parity bit is zero, let's say,
indicating that it's even parity,
and it has an even number of ones,
then it assumes, okay,
transmission was fine.
Where if it gets odd parity, then it
assumes that transmission was not fine,
and it needs a new transmission.
It basically sends some kind of request
to say, send me the data again.
Oh, and this bit, this parity
bit is sent after the data bit.
So you have the start bit,
then you have the data bits,
then you send the parity bit,
then you send the stop bit, or bits.
You can send one or more stop.
So here's an example, we've got some
series of bits, eight bits, and
there are five ones in those eight bits.
So it's an odd number of ones, that means
this set of eight bits is odd parity.
So the parity bit that would be
set with this would be a one.
So you'd send these eight bits,
then you'd send one more one.
And the total parity is odd, so
now at the receiving end, it,
as it counted the number
of ones that came in.
It counted five ones, it realized that
was odd compared to the parity bit,
and if the parity is also one, the parity
bit's one, then it says this is okay.
Where if one of these bits was flipped in
transmission, then the parity would have
changed, say zero was changed to a one,
or one change was zero.
Either way, the parity would have become
even and it would have noticed a mismatch.
So if a single bit is changed, then
this can be detected using a parity bit.
Note that this is sort of a minimal
check because if two bits are altered,
then you won't detect it, right?
Cuz two bits, say you change zero to one
then you change a one to a zero, then
the total number of ones stays the same
even though the data is still incorrect.
So you wouldn't catch that.
If two bits are changed,
you might miss it.
You would miss it if two bits are changed,
but if a single bit is changed,
you could detect that using a parity bit.
So in addition to the parity bit,
you have to have stop bits.
Now the parity bit is optional,
stop bit is required.
Although you can have one or
two stop bits,
you have to have at least one stop bit.
So in this example, this timing diagram,
we show one start bit at the beginning,
eight data bits, no parity bit, but then
we have the stop bit right at the end.
A single stop bit, in this case.
Now, the stop bit,
basically it's high, it's always high.
So after the eight databits are sent and
a parody bit,
if a parody bit is gonna be sent.
The signal should be high.
So the stop bit is the time
when the signal is high after
the transmission is done.
It's expected to be high.
You can take one stop bit or
two stop bits.
If it's not a high,
if it's not a one at that point, then
it's assumed that an error has occurred,
and retransmition is gonna be required.
So, Data Throughput versus Baud.
So the Baud rate is the maximum
number of transitions in a second.
The maximum transitions, which is
the maximum bits that you can send.
And it's true that you can
send that many bits, but
not all of those bits
are actually data bits.
So the data throughput is not
as high as the Baud rate,
because you're sending the stop bit,
the start bit and the parody bit.
Stop bit could be two bits and
the parody bit, you send this extra
stuff that is not actually data.
So the data transmission rate is
going to be less than the baud rate.
So, these signalling bits have to be sent,
so
let's imagine an example where
you're sending eight data bits.
And you're sending one parity bit, and
one stop bit, and start bit, let's say.
So, you're sending eight data bits, but
there are 11 actual bits that you have to
send in order to send the eight, right?
Cuz you gotta send the start bit, and
the parity bit, and the stop bit, and
I'll say the baud rate is 9600 baud.
So nice things in a baud would be
the maximum rate of the number of bits,
9600 bits per second can be sent.
But you're sending 11 bits a second,
8 data bits.
So your data throughput,
would be less because the transmission
efficiency is only eight out of 11.
So you get 73% efficiency out of that.
So the data throughput rate
is actually only 73% of 9600.
So you get, 6981 bits per second
of data that you can actually send
when you're using 9600 baud
under those assumptions.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]